Hi, my name is Dax and I'm using a mic.
I'm a white person. How bad can it be?
The fuck are you smiling about?
Well, I mean, it's been a week. Like, we skipped a week.
So it's kind of like, I haven't talked to you in two weeks.
And there's that. I am kind of upset that I paused this video.
I'm watching Ashton Jinti. He's a running back for Boise State.
And I just kept hearing his name. It's one of those deals where it's like,
you keep randomly hearing about this person. I mean, I listened a lot of NFL stuff.
He's a college football player and he's amazing.
And I don't know why that's on our podcast because it's very random.
But you should watch some Ashton Jinti highlights running back. He's amazing.
He's a running back. Yeah. And running back.
Yeah, running back hides are always really, really fun.
But running backs, like in the NFL, it's like whatever.
It's just like that you can get a dime a dozen.
They don't really need a good running back.
But then every once in a while, there's one of the generational prospects they call them.
It's like they change franchises, even at the running back position.
He looks really good. Anyway, I don't know anything about running back or scouting or whatever.
But the highlights are cool. Moving on.
When I say I need like 15, 20 minutes, am I the kind of person that when you hear that,
you just immediately think it's going to be 45 minutes?
Have I earned that reputation yet? Or do you not think that?
I live in Miami where nobody's sense of time can be trusted at all.
So at this point, including my own, so at this point, I just don't even
a digital thing. So you're decent. Okay, cool.
Because I feel bad when that kind of thing happens.
And then I'm like, is this what always happens? Do I have a reputation?
I don't know because in different circles, different friendships over my life,
I've had that reputation and I wonder if I've shook it off and this is rare.
I don't know. Just started thinking.
For me hearing this, it's funny because like my perception is like,
because you're white, I'm just like, there's no way it can be that bad.
I don't know what it is. I don't know if this makes any sense.
But literally I'm just like, okay, like I'm Adam's like, oh, I'm always late.
I imagine that you're like five or 10 minutes late, you know, because I'm white.
Okay. Like I'm around a lot and people all the time.
Yeah. And they will be one to two hours late and won't even acknowledge it.
Oh, okay. So it's a it's a very different thing.
And that's and that's intense.
Getting out the door is a is a challenge and like,
so like whatever you're saying, I'm just like, yeah, I can't be that bad.
Can't be that bad.
Okay. I'm a I'm a white person. How bad can it be?
Don't worry. Maybe again, relative to your community.
Maybe it's the worst, but maybe if you ever come here,
you're going to be like early to everything, probably.
Oh, nice. Okay. Well, that's that's good.
Just saying community or just kind of talking about past friends.
Do you have a hard time? This just came up last night.
I was talking with Casey about it.
I have like a string of very close friendships over my adult life,
and even going beyond that, like going back into school, like high school or whatever.
I have like always had a really close friend and
there's like three or four of them that I never thought I wouldn't stay in touch,
but it's so hard to like try to stay in touch or even like want to respond
when they try to stay in touch because it just feels like this very heavy thing that like,
if I'm going to talk to you at all, are we going to have to have like a really close relationship
like we used to? I say really close, like whatever. It's really close as I can be to somebody.
It just feels like too much effort to even consider the relationship because we used to be close.
Does that make sense?
I feel like I've been thinking about the exact same thing lately.
So I have a similar situation like I have. I have a friend that I mean, it's a group of friends,
but I'm thinking one specifically that and I've known all these people since I was like in middle
school. So people that, you know, I've known for a very long time. One of them I was at least
particularly close with. So he's having his first baby next month. Yeah. And I didn't hear about it
until like a month ago. So it's just like and it's not like it's like the reality of
it's not like a rude thing at all. It's just like we don't have we just kind of lost any natural
way that we natural situations that we would cross paths. So I didn't mess with him. I went
up, you know, you end up calling me and we talked for a little bit. But yeah, there's just this
thing like if you're not basically talking every single week, it just becomes like you said this
heavy thing where it's like, it's very formalized way of communicating and it's like one person saying
a bunch of things about their life and you're just like, Oh, cool. Oh, nice. Great. And then it's
good. And you say a bunch of things. Yeah, exactly. So it's just not the way that, you know,
people hang out. And it's it's really sad. And I guess it's just a reality of getting older and
like going through different phases of your life. But wow, like I just never really thought that
this was a thing that would happen. Yeah, it feels like this graveyard of past relationships,
but like they're still alive and you still could like stay in touch kind of, but it just feels like,
I don't know, like it's never going to happen. And I don't know if I wanted to happen. Like,
I feel like if I was in a room with any one of them, it would immediately be like,
it used to be and it would be it would feel, you know what I mean? But it's like,
we don't live near each other. Or if we do, we're just living great different lives. And yeah,
like you said, if we don't talk every week, it's just very hard to imagine still having
that friendship. I don't know. It's weird. It's kind of weird. Yeah, I think like you,
I just never expected it to happen. I don't know what I expected, but all those people I would have
thought I'd be close with forever. And I never would have thought I'd have like a handful of them
because I've just been alive long enough. You know what I mean?
Yeah, it's true. Yeah. Yeah, I guess I'm actually, now that you mentioned it, I am going through a
second phase of that. It's a, yeah, so it is like a handful. So I have like my friends from school
growing up dealing with that, you know, kind of not being as close anymore. And now that I'm in
Miami, it's all my New York friends. I'm like going through a second phase with that as well.
And it's like almost the exact same thing. So, and it's not either so New York, they all move
too. So they're having this problem with each other as well, I imagine. But it's, it's funny
because it's like literally all they would take to fix it is to turn it into this thing where I'm
like messaging them every day, just a little, because there are people I message every single day.
Or like I used a couple of times a week. It's just that there's no trigger or like my brain
doesn't think to message them. Like when I see something that I want to share with someone,
like they've just rotated out of the set of people that I share stuff with. So,
yeah, all it would take was, this would be for me to actively like remember to do that.
But yeah, as little as it is, it's, it just doesn't happen.
That's the weird part. It like, I think that's what I'm really hung up on in the conversation with
Casey last night. It's like, it really wouldn't take that much. It's not that much effort. Why
don't I put it forward? Because it's really like, it just feels like the easiest thing in the
world. And those were valuable relationships I had. But I just continue to not do it and almost
actively like avoid it. I don't know. It's interesting. Yeah. Just one of those things about getting
older, I guess. A lot of bad things about getting older. They say like time goes faster, the older
you get, do you, have you heard that? I don't want to talk about that. Okay. Okay.
Because I hate that concept and it's like, go on and think about it. Okay. Well, the one thing I was
going to say is it just already feels like it's going so fast. So like, I'm going to go faster.
Anyway, I'll stop. Maya, both Liz and my mom also said this. And I think it's true because I've
experienced a year that was like this. They say time goes slower if you do a lot of different things
every year. Yes. And we had this past year, we did a lot of different things that we don't
normally do. And it feels like a very long year. Like we're coming up the end of the year and I'm
like, wow, like, I can't, like, can you believe that React Miami was this year? That feels like
five years ago. There were so many things that we did this year. So it felt like a slower year
than the year before. So that I do remember now, Casey and I have talked about this as like an
antidote to like our kids just disappearing from our lives and it going so fast. It's like,
things like a year feels slow. If you can, if you have like a lot of memories and you don't really
make memories unless you break out of your normal routine, like basically, you have to like have
experiences, do things that are different out of the normal. So the more, yeah, like you said,
the more you can do that, you have these markers that kind of like stretch back over the year and
it slows that year down. It makes it feel like, I don't know, it's the whole thing. It's, I guess
it's just perception and retrospect. It's not really feeling slower in the moment. It's about
feeling like, I don't know, you lived a year worth while at the end of it, I guess,
not just feeling like, I can't believe it's Christmas again. Like, it's not having that feeling.
Yeah. Like, I can't believe like Dallas was just what two months ago, that feels like so long ago.
It does feel like a long time ago. And now we got New York, New York. People still don't know
what we're doing, right? I know what we're doing, but people don't.
Did you see the disaster that happened? No, there is a conflict. Oh, no.
Wait, wait, what? The jazz nation's speaker dinner is at the same time.
Oh, no. What channel would I see this in? Well, it's a, there's a sentry channel that
was in there, was messaged me about it. And then, so I emailed the jazz nation person,
let's see what, what they say. But I think we'd lose like five people if every single one
decides to go. How many, how many did we have? Did we have backups?
We didn't even have enough for teams of five. We had enough for four.
Oh, no. So we're going to have to, oh, well, I just do some stuff.
There's going to be teams involved. Yeah. And it was, it was two teams of four.
Are we on any of the teams? What are we doing? What do I have to do? Nothing.
We're going to be on one team, but there's going to be, we need three teams
besides us. Sorry, we need four teams besides us. Okay. So that was 20 people.
If we do teams of four, I think it's totally fine. That's down to 16. Yeah, we're at like,
every single one of them decides not to go. We're at like 13 or 14. So we'll, we'll figure it out.
It just says it would be a bummer. Bummer. Well, I did send email.
And I was like, you know, I, I said like, no, we could give all the speakers free tickets to come
and, and all of that. But I was also like, hey, the speakers are really excited to go to our thing.
So they're probably not going to go to, I didn't say that explicitly, but I'm hoping to put that
together. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I mean, I hope that works out. Yeah. Because that's,
I just saw the list of names that, that'd be a bummer. In the back of my head, I was like,
one thing is going to go wrong. There's going to be one thing that you're waiting for. I guess it's
gone too smoothly. And then here it is. Here it is. Just shout out real quick to Liz for being
awesome and on top of all the things. She's doing such a good job.
Yeah. This is a, it's like what she's built for. So MVP. Yeah.
When she's going to, when she's going to organize an Ozarkian paintball match,
because that would be, that would be a lot of fun. The podcast will have a little sneak
peek on that one. They'll know what's coming when we're like, we're doing an event in the Ozarks.
They'll know. There's nothing else to do here. AJ heard about this. And he was telling me that,
you know, it seems like AJ is someone that is very good hobbies. And I learned that he has
he used to have a hobby used to be on a paintball team that basically was like a national pro or
something. Whoa, okay. Yeah. He's jumping all pro AJ. Look at him. I was saying, okay,
we need to do some kind of thing where someone jumps out of a plane related to terminal and like,
yeah, he's going to do that for us. You know, yeah, yeah. We got a guy.
No, I was, I was asking him what the laws were on face jumping. Like, what is the law? Like,
can you just jump off of a plane anywhere? Like, can someone jump out of a family in my backyard?
There has to be some kind of, well, I'm trying to think of precedent. Like, are there ways that
the government tries to keep us from killing ourselves accidentally doing risky things?
It's not really killing ourselves. It's just like landing in the city is sketchy, right?
Oh, he was saying that basically it's if you meet certain certifications, which are quite
hard to meet, you can basically do whatever you want. Wow. So I think we could have someone
jump out and land in my backyard, you know, if you name that precisely.
That would be amazing. How funny would that be?
You just, that's something about that just reminded me of drones. What's going on with drones
these days? I feel like drones have been around a long time and like, has the technology gotten
better? I mean, like, can you buy like really amazing drones now that like, and are there
laws around flying drones? I don't know. I've heard things about that.
Did you see, did you see Andoril's new drone product?
Two. No, obviously not. I don't know who that is.
Okay. So you know, Palmer Lucky, the Oculus founder founded a military company?
No, but I believe. Okay. Okay. He did. It's called Andoril. And, like,
Andoril. It's the name of like Aragorn's, Aragorn's sword and.
Aragorn? Okay. Oh, Lord of the Rings.
Actually, not that. Yeah. Oh, his sword is named Andoril. I think I knew that, but you're saying
it. Yeah. And Andoril. You're saying it like somebody who has only ever read it.
Somehow. I don't know. I definitely have only I read Return of the King. I've mostly watched it.
I'm sorry. I don't I don't have a native Middle-Earth accent.
Well, I just couldn't tell if you're saying Andoril or Andoril. It was Andoril.
Andoril. Andoril. I've never said it out loud. I think that's the issue.
Yeah. I guess why would you why would you say Aragorn's sword out loud, you know?
Like, well, where would that come up?
They make products for the military, like like missiles and things that blow up,
but they put out like sort of product. Reels like it's like an Apple product. I mean,
it's a totally different vibe. It's not like the Apple vibe, but it's like that level of production
where it's yeah, seems like it's a consumer product. But they're selling these drones now,
again, to the military. To the military. Yeah. That can like blow up. And they're like,
they have all these crazy capabilities of like being super precise and they do these dive bombs
and they blow up like right above the target to the shockwave, like yikes. It's at maximum lethality.
So yeah, drone tech seems pretty legit. Have you seen all of the like pretty much all these big
events have started to replace fireworks with these crazy those crazy drone? Yeah, like synchronized
drone shows. So I knew about that like a new China was doing something at the Olympics several
years ago. So I figured, is that made into consumer stuff? Can I buy like a drone show? If I want to
like hire somebody to come to a drone show at my event, that's like a thing. Yeah. I mean,
the nearest thing we went to this past year, like in my neighborhood data at a drone thing going on.
Okay. So it's made to Miami. It'll be in the Ozarks in about four or five years.
Something like that. It could be you. It could be me. Maybe I'll just start a new career as a drone
operator. You can just freak out people. Just like, just start projecting really crazy shit.
Oh, they totally would think it was UFOs. I thought Starlink was UFOs when I saw it for the
first time. No joke. I was in the shower and I freaked out. I was like, Casey. Oh my God. What
is this? There's nothing that could be that it's got to be easy. And then we looked at that. Have you
seen Starlink at night? Like the string of them? Yeah, it's like a perfect line. If you've never
heard of that or seen it, it's like what else could be flying together like that? Like nothing
moves. That's not a plane. It's not planes. I don't think it's not shooting stars all synchronized.
It's crazy. It's made by humans. I know. It's a thing that's made by humans. Yeah, wild.
I know drones were really influential in like the Ukraine, Russia, conflicts, ongoing conflicts.
I think after that, the Ukraine, Russia thing, I really understood how much of war is like just
economic things. It's like you imagine that you're trying to win a battle. So you just like send in
your forces. Yeah, it's this deep calculation of like, this tank costs X million dollars. If we
put it in, it takes out this other thing. But that thing costs less than the tank. So like, is it
like, I think drones just make those calculations really crazy because you're risking a multi-million
dollar thing and someone with like a thousand dollar drone can, yeah, $1,000 and like take away
millions from you, right? So yeah, the whole asymmetry thing is pretty wild. Yeah, I guess the
reason I brought up drones, it just feels like one of those things that it was like 10 years ago,
whatever, when people got the first like consumer drones. And I just remember thinking like, man,
someday they're just going to be flying all over the place and they're not. So I just wondered like,
why is it just kind of a novelty? Is there a reason to own one as a person? Like, I want to own one.
You know me. I'm like a, I buy a lot of things. I'm a consumer at heart. I don't own one,
but I have no reason to own one. That's the only reason I don't. I think for people in filmmaking,
it's just totally, I mean, filmmaking in the loose term, like just people do. Yeah. Yeah.
Twitch streamers programming Twitch streamers? Okay.
Well, it's done here. I did have this thought where in every movie you've ever seen, there's
always like an overhead shot. This is always overhead shots all the time. And what do they do
before drones existed? Do they just like buy stock footage? But that's so much crazier. It's
like so loud and it's like rent a helicopter to get this overhead shot. I mean, for movies, I think
are you saying for lower budget stuff? I mean, even for a movie, it's like just to have like a
three second overhead shot to set up a scene. Yeah, they had to rent a helicopter and do that.
That's like, I mean, that's a lot of it. I watched all the Lord of the Ring special footage in high
school. And I'm pretty sure that you still have to have a couple of thoughts. Yeah, right. Yeah.
Today, would they just do that with drones then, I guess? Yeah. Like, is there any loss of quality
by using a drone? Probably a drone. I got my, I think I posted a picture right, my small rig thing.
Oh, yeah. It's like an iPhone harness thing. So we can just film stuff. It's so well thought out,
like, I mean, people in the podcast can't see, but this is like a thing to put my iPhone into and it
like has like handles and has like a built in SSD in the handle. Oh, built in SSD in the handle.
That's cool. This thing is so up. Okay. So see this. Yeah. Like you can like quickly like reoriented to
have like different, different angles and stuff. Oh, nice. And people can see this if they want
to go to YouTube, by the way, our podcast is on YouTube. I don't know if you want to watch us.
Top of this handle right here. Here's what's crazy inside of it. You can open it like this.
And it has a SSD slot. Wow. That's pretty smart. That's a small rig thing, you said.
Yeah. Yeah. So I put that in there and then it plugs it to my phone and I just record straight
straight to that. And that's pretty awesome. That like level of creativity is like,
there's like a million little details in here like that. Like you can like, you know,
the handles rotate so you can get like different angles. But the reason I brought this up is this
is like in partnership with some guy named Renly. He's like an independent filmmaker. So he always
like makes it, you know, he'll do like a two or three minute thing that he films with this.
It's crazy how creative they get like they attach this. They like create like a
they want to like overhead chase footage. So they put it on like a zip line and they just
let it go. And it follows the people. They'll like throw it over stuff. Like they'll do
pretty pretty creative things. And yeah, it like comes out. Has anyone made like like a movie?
Like a like not a big movie, but like a movie with an iPhone? What did you do not see this
the thing going around? Do you know that series that zombie series are 28 hours later, 28 days
later sounds familiar. Okay. So is a movie or is a zombie it's a zombie original zombie movie
28 hours later, which is like, you know, the idea is 20 hours after a zombie thing. Okay,
that was 28 days later, which is like, you know, more time has passed. And now they're doing like
28 months later or something. And it was going around because the whole movie is filmed on an
iPhone 15. And I was like, wow, that's so crazy because it's it's not like an indie.
It's like an in the theaters movie. Yeah, it's like a hundred million dollar budget like something.
Yeah, what? But a hundred million dollar budget, right? Okay, the first thing I did was like,
I want to see them using it. Yeah, I was like looking at pictures and I was like,
like, I can't find a picture of them using the iPhone. Then I realized that the thing they had
in a tripod, which was this giant freaking device. There's an iPhone in there, but it's like, it
has like crazy cinematography lenses and stuff on an iPhone. Yeah, yeah. There's there's some company
that it's like thousands and thousands of dollars of gear on top of the guy. So it's like, okay,
yeah, it was like, guys walking around, hold my phones like, yeah, it's not that. So it's not that.
So it's like, okay, like, interesting, you're basically you just built a camera, you built your own
camera and like, it's still impressive. Like, yeah, I guess because it doesn't have like, I don't know,
I don't know a lot about cameras, but like, I feel like how do you get the real depth of field
without, is that just the lens? That's where it's weak. That's where it's weak, right? Because it
doesn't have like a shutter and an aperture and all that. I don't know how the lens can still help
with that. But yeah, there's there's definitely certain limitations of what you can do. And I
watched a bunch of videos of the professional cinematographers like explaining how far they can
go with the iPhone and like where the limits are. So people have broke it down. Yeah. And someone
actually went and like, did a bunch of shots, like identical shots with both, and compared to it.
Yeah. And it's like, and even even he said like, technically, I'm gonna prefer all my camera gear.
But the gap is really small. Yeah. And he was like, especially going back to when I was starting
out, this is like a million times better than anything I'd ever had, like earlier in my career.
That's why. Yeah. And the camera stuff obviously like looked better, but man, like it still looks
very professional, the iPhone. That's wild. Do they even make like cameras that aren't really
nice cameras? Do they make like point and shoots anymore? Is there any reason to buy those? Like,
I would think there's no market if your phone has a better camera. I mean, that used to be a thing,
you know, like camcorders and cameras that were all like varying price points.
I've been growing up. Yeah. Like a digital camera. I had a little like zoom out lens on it.
They'll remember the sound it made with the little deep sound when you press a button. Yeah.
No more doesn't exist. Doesn't exist. It's kind of wild. It's kind of wild to imagine like,
life as an adult now without an iPhone or without just a smartphone, I guess. Can you imagine like
navigation? That's the one I always think of like when we drive somewhere. There's so many little
things. I've always been horrible at navigating. So that's huge for me. Yeah. Yeah. They were
simpler times. Hey, we got an election coming up. That's exciting. Yeah, I'm voting for the first
time my whole life. No, you're not. What? Yeah. Yeah. What are you 20? What are you talking about?
Well, I wasn't this this and until like right after the previous election. Wait, what?
Yeah. I'm sorry. How did I not know this about you? We're 113 episodes in. How did I not know
that you're only like recently? It's confusing because I've been in the U.S. for
25, 26 years or something. Yeah, but you didn't become a citizen till when? 2020.
Like how many years in? So like 20 years in to being here? Yeah, I could have done it a
long time ago. I just didn't. Like I've had a permanent resident green card for a very, very
long time since I was like 12 or 13. Oh, so it was just more like a formality. It wasn't like
you were waiting in line for 20 years and then you found out. No, no, no. Okay. It's like getting
a driver's license. The kids who are like, wait until they're 17. You're like, what are you thinking?
Why aren't you driving? Yeah, it's exactly like that. Yeah. It's exactly like that. But I mean,
to be fair, I did apply for like it did take me several years because one, I think this is right
when Trump got elected, they slow, like the process is just slowed down a ton. Yeah. And they made a
mistake and rejected my application. And when they make a mistake, it already takes them like a
year to get back to you. And then it takes like so much time to like appeal it and acknowledge that
the mistake and you know, all that stuff. So it took me super long. But when I got sworn in as a
citizen, it was like during the end, it was like during COVID, like not like deep in it. So they
brought us all into a room. And it was like, it was so weird because it was a giant room with like
a grid of chairs, but each chair was like three feet apart from the other one. So we were all
just like sitting in like, Oh, because yeah, yeah, yeah. And the judge wasn't physically there. He
was doing it over zoom. But what that meant was he could do, he was doing like three of them at
a time. There was like the one in Manhattan and one in upstate New York and one in, he was doing
three simultaneous that I'm like, this just, you just increase efficiency by three X minimum,
because now there's a little in three places at once. Do they stick with that? I wonder,
did they abandon that policy? It seems more efficient. Like why why it's such a,
yeah, it's such a formality. Yeah. But you got to be sworn in as a citizen. I don't think I got
sworn in. I was just boring. To be honest, I think every person should have to do that at some point.
It sounds kind of cool. It's like a moment where you're like, okay, I'll do it. I'll be a citizen.
And I'll be a good one. Yeah, they make you swear all these things. And it's so,
it sounds so intense too. Like, you know, I love like dramatic stuff like that. It's like,
I've, I like forsake any allegiance to any foreign prince. It's like, it's like that. It's like,
it's really intense. I commit to doing noncombatant military duties because I actually don't think
they like make you commit to doing military duties. Yeah, military stuff. They say like,
they say you commit to doing at least noncombatant military duty. Huh, a little,
little disclaimer on there. Were there any you had to think about? Were there any that you're like,
oh, do I want to do I want to swear to this? They're like, you have to accept next JS as the best
react framework, meta framework. Well, the one that gives you pause, the ultimate downside of
being a US citizen is no matter where you go in the world, you owe the US government taxes.
I was going to guess taxes. I thought a moment there, I thought I should get to guess, but
that would have been my guess. Yeah. Not every place is like that, right? Like, imagine you
leave the US and you go, yeah, but America, if you're a citizen, like to not pay US taxes,
you just have to renounce your citizenship, right? Which people do, like, there's like
billionaires that do that. Yeah, do they just say, I renounce my citizenship. There's like some
paperwork, probably. What is that from? There's something is that a resident of it where I declare
bankruptcy. Michael Scott. Yeah. I renounced it. Did you hear me?
So you were sworn in. I can't believe you've never voted. This is all like, like, I knew you
weren't born here, but for some reason, I just thought you've always been a citizen. I don't know why,
like why I thought you just got it. I don't know. This is news to me. The timeline of
Dax and his citizenship. So you were a citizen of India. That's right. Right there. But, okay,
here's another fine. Here's another fine dynamic. So the US does not recognize dual citizenship.
Oh, really? It's this funny thing where you're like, what is dual citizenship? It's just one
country being like, ah, it's cool. You know, the other countries have to say it's, yeah, it's cool.
The US does not recognize dual citizenship. So you basically say, like, I, like, renounce
any citizenship, whatever. But if the other country does recognize those, yeah, we're fine.
Yeah. So they have something called India is still like, you're cool. Yeah. They have something
called an OSI versus in of India, which I need to apply for. And that lets me, you know, worst case,
if something horrible happens, I can go, yeah, on property there or whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Why? It's so funny to me. It's such an American thing to be like, we don't recognize dual citizenship.
Like, you don't need to. It doesn't matter. Like, if the other country does, and like, what do you
know what I mean? Like, just like, but like, technically, what is your stance? Your stance is,
you're an American and you shouldn't be. And that's it. You know, you shouldn't be half and half out,
which I kind of agree with. Like, I don't, uh, like, I get it. I think that's maybe the right
policy to have. If you're the country everyone's immigrating to, yeah, yeah. If you're the country
where everyone's leaving, you're like, you'll just do whatever you can to so like have some kind of
tie, right? Yeah. I was the indie people from India moved to the US, so it's good for India to like,
latch onto them somehow. Yeah. You know how there's like a subculture for everything and like,
there's people who are really into like every most obscure thing you could ever think of? Yeah.
Do you ever just like predict those? Or you just like, can imagine this whole thing exists,
but you're not going to look into it. You just know it does. Like, I know there are people who
compete with like, how many citizenships they have. I've never heard this before. There's,
I'm sure there's a Reddit. I'm not going to look at it, but it's just kind of fun to think like,
there's a guy that has like eight citizenships and he's like the record holder,
just like the languages. Like that's very similar to like, I know two dozen languages. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, if you're in Europe, because now they have the EU citizenship thing,
which is so convenient. Like, I'm imagining how bad it was before. Imagine if you had to deal with,
it felt like international travel every time you like left Missouri, just like a different state
in the US. That would be tough. Yeah. Because I leave my state all the time. I mean, you left this
week, didn't you? I guess I did. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I do travel a little bit. That was kind of a dumb
joke. Yeah. I used to not, I think I was like 18 before I left the state of Missouri. Isn't that
sad? Oh, you're one of those. I'm one of those. I'm trying to think of it. You never saw the ocean
until no, I guess I wasn't 18. You were already an adult. You must have driven to Florida. No,
that's not true. We went to Florida. I don't know what I'm talking about. I must have just,
like, imagined myself as a kind of tragic story for yourself. Yeah.
I definitely never gone overseas. And I've only really gone. Wait, have I gone overseas?
I've gone to Mexico. That's not over in a sea. I've never gone. I've never gone over a sea.
Wait, you're up. You've never been to. No, no, none of them. That's crazy. Have you been to,
what other countries are you going to do? There's deferrals that go to Europe, like every other
weekend. Yeah. I've been to Canada. I've been into the waters of Canada.
What does that mean? In Buffalo. Oh, like Niagara Falls? Niagara Falls, yes. The waters of Canada.
That's a freaking river. I've been to Niagara Falls, which is kind of Canada. And I've been to Mexico.
So that's it. North America. I'm, oh, I've only been North America. Wow. North American AF.
AF. You were like born in another country. You had to be sworn in as a citizen. That's amazing.
Yeah, I know. I had to swim here. You're so cultured.
There was, there's some tech stuff. We had a next conf was this past week. I can't believe
we didn't live stream go over like live stream for that disaster last time.
That was it. Is it a disaster? I remember you couldn't figure out the layout. I can't
put ourselves way too much over. Yeah. And TJ was going nuts in the chat. Yeah, TJ.
What they announced? Well, what, what kind of new goodies do we have to play with? There was a
slide in the keynote that had opened next on it. Oh, for real. Yeah. Oh, this is cool. They gave
two open X contributors, $2,000 each. Wow. Look at that. Is that more than you've ever given any
open X contributors? Not to turn a shade, but. Yeah, it's definitely more. Just. I mean, I believe
you, but I'm not trying to like shoot you down. You guys are playing nice. You in versatile.
Sitting in a tree. Who knew? I know. Look at that. Who knew? They published SST examples and
their repo and their docs and they're going to like publish. They publish like not just a like
render Netlify like a bunch of examples. Netlify. I know that they're joining open X as well.
Wow. It's a movement. Yeah. So look at that.
It's like someone at Vercel was sitting in a meeting with some higher ups and they were like,
have we, have we tried just like being nice to these people? Have we tried that? And everybody was
like, huh. Yeah. And it worked. And then it worked. It's amazing for exhausting all of their options.
Yeah. They just went with this one. We're not going to win in a flame war. But what if we're
just nice? What if we just like work with them? Cool. So that's that's going on. I still think
next day sucks. I said to get that on the record. I know. I like want to do something with that.
With that still Drey. So I don't know if you know that, Dr. Drey. Still Drey. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Oh, yeah. Because because everyone sees me being nice to Vercel and they're like,
like, have you changed? Like, what is this? Like, this is not what we're here for. But listen,
I'm still me. I still think actually sucks news for babies. It's for babies. Oh, it's funny.
It's for literal babies. What's it like to be abrasive on the internet? I just couldn't do it.
I couldn't be. I mean, like, I can be abrasive, but I couldn't be like, openly in conflict with
something. It was just hurt. It's weird. You can just turn off the app and it's like, it's like,
nothing is happening. So that's crazy. It just is not real life. And yeah,
I can be abrasive and just not open my Twitter. And it's like it doesn't exist. It literally
just doesn't exist. So it's like this universe that literally exists in my pocket and nowhere else.
Okay. So that reminds me of like how I've not been on Twitter, really. And something happened
last night. So if this person listens to podcasts, I love you. This, I don't mean this in a negative
way. But someone actually message my wife on Instagram, someone that I was close with in the past
that I haven't kept in touch with. Just the whole conversation at the beginning of this,
where I just, I'm not bad at saying in touch. They were concerned about me. And the reason they
sided was that I haven't been posting on X. I just thought that was so funny. Like they're
concerned with me because I'm not posting on X. And I just think like, isn't that kind of
backwards? Like if I were posting a lot on X, I feel like be concerned that I'm too online. But
like, I don't know, he doesn't seem like he's doing okay, he's not posting on X. I don't know.
It's fun that the truth is exactly the opposite. I'm like, Adam's life is going well now. And he's
just like, you know, he doesn't like need all this stuff anymore. Yeah, I feel like if you were
to like chart it, like X, Y axis, the better my life is going, the less you will see me on X,
I promise you, there's a future where I'm like retired and not doing anything technology related.
And I will never literally open the app again. And that's I think why I'm not really getting on it
these days. It's like, I just have no desire to read any technical anything. Like anything anybody
has to say, even you, I mean, I just like, it's not that it's not interesting. I'm sure it's
interesting. It just doesn't interest me at all. And that's the only thing I have on Twitter. Like,
I don't have any other circles on Twitter. They're like other types of content. So when I open Twitter,
it's just a bunch of tech stuff. And I just don't care. I don't know what happened. I still love
programming. It's my job. But for some reason, like, most of all, maybe this is bad for our podcast.
I don't know. Most all tech stuff just doesn't really do it for me anymore. I don't know if it'll
come back. But for now, it's gone. I don't even see any. I mean, I told you, I've like shifted to
read on me on Twitter. Sorry, right on me. It's funny because you think it's read on me. I know
it's right on me. No reading, only writing. Yeah, I actually don't I don't really know what what's
going on. It's not even like I don't I'm not interested in like recurring themes or anything.
It's just like normal stuff that like people would want to share because it's cool. Like,
they're working on this thing or this thing is interesting to them. It's just for some reason,
it's really not interesting to me. And I don't know what happened and when like if it's because
I always imagine like there's lots of developers that don't get on Twitter. And they're just like,
they don't read Hacker News. They just like their job, but they don't necessarily like obsess or
dive deep on all that's going on in the world of technology. I feel like that's happened to me.
And I don't know what that means for like, I don't know. It means you've peaked out on all
downhill from here. I've peaked. Yeah. I was thinking more in terms of like the podcast because I do
realize like people might listen to us because they care that we talk about technology. I'm not
saying I don't like to talk about technology with you because it is kind of interesting,
especially stuff that's not like programming, more like just things and that affect my life,
like how technology is changing the world around us. That stuff's way more interesting to me than like,
I don't know. It's felt five is out. I'm like, I don't know. What does it feel like? I just
don't care anymore. I just don't. Yeah, I actually it's funny because it's I think it's a combination
of you don't care and they're it's hard for me to separate because I think I'm kind of in a similar
place. But I perceive it as nothing is happening. Maybe stuff is happening and I just don't care.
Maybe maybe that's what it is. Maybe there's like there's not enough big changes. It's too
incremental. And I'm just oh wait. Well, for me out, that's a literal thing. You weren't that
wasn't like a made up example. No, I literally saw that when I opened Twitter. And it's another
example of like, I used to care about this stuff. I used to like, I think I did see that a couple
of days ago and I just didn't even bother looking into it. Yeah, I have no idea what it is. And we
used to felt like literally it's all over the code base. I don't even know what version we used to
be honest. I've become that person. I'm that developer that's like, oh, you guys, he's fine for
coming. I just don't even know what's about five is. I'm sure it's great. That's the one with all
the signal stuff, I think. Cool. Or runes or whatever. Yeah, so I was saying this to somebody else
earlier this week. I've been on like a several year journey ever since I left Elixir to figure
out my tools for the things that I build. Yeah. And I think that journey has come to an end,
basically, like basically everything is solved where day to day, my pain point is like just
styling and like making stuff look and feel good. And everything outside of that is very good. And
like, I don't really have significant problems with it. So I think that's also contributing to my
lack of interest. Yeah. Everything's like hit my bar and all the problems that I was looking to solve
are basic. Does that make you want to build more things, like have more irons in the fire just so
you can use your because I feel like that's a superpower to get to the place where you're not
fiddling with your stack anymore. And you're not like unhappy with this part of your app development
process. Like, I feel like I'd want to just build all the things. If I felt like, I guess you still
have to do all the front end and styling and all that part that eats up time and cycles.
Well, that's actually that. That was a context in which I was talking about this. I was like,
I'm way more interested in actually building stuff now than I am improving your process.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like things have gotten decent. There's like one or two things I still need to
build. I keep begging people to build it, but no one will do it. Like a tool. You're going to
you're going to give us a little inside scoop or you're just going to hold it to yourself.
I post those other day. The last thing I'm missing is a job library for
just like the JavaScript ecosystem. Oh, yeah. We've talked about this before. So I keep being like,
someone build this. Like if you build it, literally you will get millions of downloads because it's
so needed. Yeah. I don't know. Are you going to build it? Are you going to build it? You're going to build
enough conviction around it. Yeah. So I'm going to I'm going to do it. So I'm reworking the console
right now so that it uses less AWS e patterns so that it can run in other places. If you want to
just help host it in AWS, but also in other places. Yeah. And the key thing that's missing is
being able to just do async work without relying on SQS and the Lambda or something. Yeah. Yeah.
Well, hopefully it doesn't have code build, I guess.
I just need to general like event stuff like kicking off and having to do it. Okay.
So like I'm building something that it's going to adapter things so you can have it backed by
Postgres for MySQL or SQS if you like, you know, have that available. Okay. Yeah. Cool.
That's one thing. That's like the last thing. It'll just be like an it'll be like an SST thing
or it'll be like a desk. No, it's just going to be like a library. I'm like, I see we'll probably
have nice support for it, but you can normal library that really should have existed. I don't
know why. I don't know what people are doing. Like what the fuck you got to do async work like
and you're not using like, what are you doing? Like we're fast tools, probably lots of them.
Yeah, I know every time I'm putting this up, everyone's like, why don't you just use ingest
and then they link me to the ingest self hosting thing. And I'm like, I'm not fucking going to deploy
this. This like three node architecture so I can kick off the two background jobs that I need to run.
Have you come up with a name yet? That's the hardest part of any new library or project.
I actually want to build it entirely using AI or like using AI in a very different way.
Because I want and I think I mentioned already, I try, I give a trial run of doing this already
for this using bolt, which is like this AI thing that from staff.
That's at the payment. No, there's a payment company called bolt, the funny one.
That's a new product. Yeah, I need them to add a few more features. But when they do,
I think I should be able to like build up because I'm trying to port an Elixir library.
Oh, okay. Like Elixir has their their job library, Oban was perfect. And I just want to port
it over and like support adapters. Yeah. And yeah, the L.M. was doing a great job at it. And I was
giving it feedback on design things I didn't like. And yeah, I want to try building like like a
real library with something like this. Yeah, okay. If you're taking any input on name,
so if you considered Aragorn or what was his sword's name? And a real and a real.
It's taken in the military space, but I feel like on the consumer side, fair game.
And consider it and a real and a real. What if it's like and do you real?
Visually? I think it looks like a fantastic name. When I read it, it sounds great.
Now I'm saying it out loud. I'm like, this is kind of awesome. Yeah. Yeah.
That's the thing about like coming up with the name. You have to have a domain that works.
It has to sound good and read good and look good. There are like all these fast SEO good SEO good.
Yeah. There's a lot of to I hate naming things. Oh, oh, I would have so many projects if naming
wasn't hard. Yeah, the ultimate name is just a random sound that has never been before. Yeah,
but then I feel like those just feel so forced to like because there's only like so many good
sounds left to like a lot of them aren't taken because they're awful like like dork school block.
It is a new sound. You're right, but it maybe just don't. Dorff.io
with a pH at the end, you know, it's like door.
That's not supposed to be a sound in English. This is not one we make.
Are you ever going to do another side project ever again? That's that's a great question because
I have done so good at not having side projects. Like, I don't think I will because I mean,
it's terminal side projects, terminal side project, like terminal is kind of my side project. I mean,
like, I don't need anything else at this point. I feel like I'm my plate is full and I'm happy
with both of them. They're so different. So like, I could just work on stamp used by itself forever.
And then when there is like something that needs to be done on terminal, it's this nice little
refreshing like, Oh, go laying. That's fun. Forgot about go laying. Yeah, no, I think I'm good.
I write so much go. You write so much go. Oh, because like I see, see, yeah, I'm doing a fun
thing. Did you see? Oh, yeah, I'm on Twitter, but you see that ghost. He's going to hit 1.0.
They're going to release it publicly. Oh, no, I did. December. Oh, everyone's going to have it.
I'm going to have to find it. Yeah, I knew that was going to be a reaction. I knew that was going
to be a reaction. Oh, man, I love it. Yeah. So you said next month, what did you say?
I think you said December. Yeah, they're shooting for December. But here's a cool thing that I didn't
know. Did you know, go see is built as not an application, but as a library and an application?
I saw this. That's how you talking with Mitchell about this on Twitter. I did not know that.
I didn't understand it. Like even seeing you guys talking about it still don't really know what
you guys were saying. But I didn't understand it because he was like, it's a library. And he
mentioned that you can use it to build a multiplex. And I was like, I don't really understand this
split. But then when as soon as he said, it's a library and there is a front end for Mac and a
front end for Linux. Yeah, basically the library, it's a terminal emulator in that like it can you
can load a process into it. And it basically has an API being like, given a 500 by 400 screen,
here's what each each cell should look like. So you can just take what it tells gives you and
just paint the screen and you don't have to know anything about it. But the front end is just like,
you know, I don't know anything about it. So that's good paint your thing. Okay.
But point B, he built a terminal emulator that's going to and he's releasing as a library too.
So okay, so he's most of the ghosty effort then in the library or the front ends. Okay,
so the front ends are both because I'm sure the free want to like render it efficiently and use
a GPU and all that. But the terminal like processing terminal codes and like figuring out when a
process emits this, like you need to change this cell and update the color and then all that stuff.
That's in the library. Okay. And that's amazing because I'm using a very crappy implementation of
that that I found and go and I found a bunch of bugs and I patched them for the SSC multiplexer.
And he made me realize like, oh yeah, I can embed ghosty. Yeah. And like, I'll start the process
in ghosty and ghosty will tell me, oh, here are the cells. Well, here's what the cells look like.
I can paint that and go. So SST, the CLI would be powered by ghost. And that's why I tweeted like,
okay, so we wrapped our form and now we're going to wrap ghosty. We're just like following Mitchell
around. Yeah. Yeah. And did some more research and I found out that there's a
another there's aren't there's are another C library called libv term that I could have used
if I understood any of this before, but I might try that in the meantime. I love the just speaking
to side projects. I love like Mitchell's path of like doing this big grand thing like terraform
that's just so like influential in the industry. And then being like, now I'm going to work on a
it was just a Mac terminal emulator and going like all in and it's like you just see people
who are really good at stuff. They're just going to make good stuff. Like he made really cool thing
and then he comes along and he's going to make another really cool thing like everything he touches
is going to be good. I think this could be really impactful if it's adopted correctly because
VS code, for example, has a really shitty they're built in terminal is like
so much worse than the most of native terminals. Like I find there's so many SST
multiplexer bugs in the VS code terminal, which a lot of people use unfortunately. They swap to
using this under the hood. Could improve a lot better. You can build like a terminal on the web
using it. Yeah, that breaks my brain. I'm not smart enough to figure that out. Just all the
words. It's like terminal. Okay, emulator. Nope. Don't know what either I'm are. I lost it.
Like I can't really conceptualize most of these things and you're like multiplexer. Nope. That
sounds fake. That's made up. Hey, use T mux all the time, don't you? I know. I know. I know.
And like, I kind of know, like I could have a conversation with someone and be like, yeah,
I use ghosty as an emulator, but I don't really know what that means. I don't know what an emulator
really is. I just know I could use ghosty or I could use iterm or I could, you know,
alacrity or whatever. I know what the emulators are, but I don't know why they're called the
emulators. Does that make sense? I was very confused about this until I worked on. I feel like
there's so many layers. Seal. I understand this confusing. Yeah, because there's everything you
just talked about the emulators, but then they don't actually do anything. You're running. What
are the emulators inside it? Probably. Right. You're running like a shell. Right. How's the shell?
How's the emulator? And yeah, I don't understand all the layers. Why are there so many layers?
In the show, you spawn a multiplexer, but the multiplexer spawns the H sessions inside of that.
Oh, God. Stop. And then those start the processes. Yeah. I'm so confused. Yeah.
Ultimately, I think the root thing is terminal used to be a physical thing. It was a physical.
That's why they're called emulators. I didn't know this. So it's like, they used to be the mainframe
terminal. It's like a terminal station, like a place you could walk up to that's got access
into the workstation thing. And when it had the width and the height, that was a fixed physical
width and height. Oh, wow. It was something that you could resize and whatever. Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
And those terminals can understand certain codes. And you've come across this for the
the test. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And see, and see codes. And see code. That's what I meant. Yeah.
I'm totally tracking. I'm right with. Yeah. Yeah. So now we have emulators that
interpret those same anti codes, but then they paint to a like any kind of screen using your
graphics capabilities of your computer. That's why they're called an emulator. An emulator.
They're emulating that physical terminal. Okay. That's cool. Yeah. That's actually pretty cool.
Yeah. And all this. You realize you start just know how to emit and see
anti codes. Yeah. That's it. Okay. And that's what our company does. And that's why it's called
terminal. Yeah. And terminals have two modes. Wait, what? And two modes. Insert and edit. No.
All right. I forgot what the normal. Is it called normal mode?
I don't know what the normal mode's called, but I know the fancy mode is called raw mode.
And that's what we use. Wait, what? There's raw mode in raw mode. Have you ever had your
terminal like something crash and like nothing the terminal is working? Like it's printing all
as we're characters and like, yeah, you're trying to hit buttons, but just printing like weird codes.
That's because a process put that terminal in raw mode. But then in raw mode before it could reset
it. And raw mode to do all kinds of crazy stuff, like repaint stuff and like go over stuff interesting.
And that's what we use for like a terminal that shop. It's in raw mode. It's in a very,
very educational episode of tomorrow. You told me you weren't interested in tech anymore. I gave
you the most boring information about all this. What's talking about terminals and emulators?
That sounds interesting. It actually kind of is. All right, I got to get up here. I got to get my
kid off screen time. I'm soloed adding. So if you've been listening to this whole episode,
just think my kid's been watching a screen the whole time. I'm a terrible parent. I'm so sorry.
He's watching our last episode. Maybe that would be that would not be very good for a kid. He would
not enjoy that now. He's five. All right. Okay. Whatever. You're fine. Whatever. Tough crowd.
Okay. I'll see you next week. Yeah. All right. See you next.
Yeah.